---
layout: post
title: cv
---

I am a Data Scientist at OneAnalytix, Singapore. I finished my Ph.D. on information engineer from School of EEE, Nanyang Technological University (NTU), Singapore. My current work and research areas includes Big Data Analysis, Machine Learning, Recommendation and Prediction, Human Computer Interaction.


**Interests:**

Data science, machine learning, deep learning, and blockchain.

Tensorflow, PyTorch, Hadoop, Spark, Drill, Linux / Unix. 

Brain-computer interaction, graphic/haptic rendering, virtual reality.



## EXPERIENCE


### [2016-2018] Data Scientist, OneAnalytix
Recommendation System based on Transaction Analytics
* Understanding customers from their shopping consumption habits.
* Build different recommendation models for financial industries.
* Develop analytics system for big data processing based on Hadoop, spark and apache drill.

### [2014-2016] Research Fellow, Fraunhofer Singapore 
CAAS Project: Integrated System for the Future Air Traffic Management Workplace and Human Factors Evaluations in Future Air Traffic Control 
* Development of a future workplace for air traffic controllers.
* Developed machine learning models for various brain states recognition and real-time brain states monitoring tools.
* Achieve three levels of stress recognition with the accuracy of 75.22%, and two levels of stress can be recognized with the accuracy of 85.17%.
* Implemented statistical analysis to prove the significant human factors in air traffic control.

Neurocognitive tools for enhancement of the focused attention related to athletic performance in elite shooters (2016)
* Develop machine/deep learning tools to recognized brain patterns based on EEG data.
* Implement statistical analysis with SPSS on the neurofeedback training results to better improve athletic performance.

Singapore Air Force: Training Individual Aircrew Multitasking and Attention (2014-2015)
* Development EEG-based neurofeedback training system to improve cognitive abilities (multitasking and attention) for aircrew.
* Implement data analysis neurofeedback efficiency and multitasking performance.

NTU-BMW Project: Driver's Awareness and Workload Monitoring (2013-2016)
* Developed a real-time brain states monitoring system to show the changes of emotion, stress and workload during driving.

### [2012-2014] Project Officer, School of Computer Engineering, NTU 
Research and development of force interaction of virtual objects in the tasks of Biomolecular simulation (2012-2014)
* Propose and implemented a predictive dynamic algorithm for stable haptic rendering in complex environment

Visual and Haptic Rendering in Co-space (2009-2012)
* Develop and implement predictive and optimized algorithms for visual and haptic rendering in virtual reality environment.
* Implement a collaborative visual and haptic rendering system in C++ to support interaction between multiple haptic devices.

Visual and Force Feedback Simulation in Nanoengineering and Application to Docking of Transmembrane-Helices (2010-2011)
* Implement predictive haptic rendering algorithm is in C++ with OpenGL and OpenHaptics for biomolecular docking in virtual environment.


## PUBLICATIONS
* X. Hou and O. Sourina. "Real-time Adaptive Prediction Method for Smooth Haptic Rendering." arXiv preprint arXiv:1603.06674 (2016).
* X. Hou, Y. Liu, W. L. Lim, Z. Lan, O. Sourina, W. Mueller-Wittig and L. Wang, "CogniMeter: EEG-based Brain States Monitoring", LNCS Transactions on Computational Science (TCS), accepted, 2016.
* Y. Liu, X. Hou, O. Sourina, and O. Bazanova, "Individual Theta/Beta Based Algorithm for Neurofeedback Games to Improve Cognitive Abilities", LNCS Transactions on Computational Science (TCS), accepted, 2015.
* O. Sourina, X. Hou, L. Wang, W. L. Lim, and Y. Liu. "Neurofeedback games for the enhancement of cognitive abilities related to multitasking." International Journal of Psychophysiology 94, no. 2, pp 149, 2014.
* X. Hou and O. Sourina, “Stable adaptive algorithm for Six Degrees-of-Freedom haptic rendering in a dynamic environment”, The Visual Computer, vol. 29, pp 1063-1075, 2013. 
* X. Hou, O. Sourina, “Six Degree-of-Freedom Haptic Rendering for Biomolecular Docking”, LNCS Transactions on Computational Science (TCS), vol. 6670, pp 98-117, 2011. 
* O. Sourina, and X. Hou, “Visual Haptic-enabled Biomolecular Docking System Design”, Scientific Visualization, 2(1), pp 49-58, 2010.
* Yisi Liu, Xiyuan Hou, Olga Sourina, Dimitrios Konovessis, Gopala Krishnan. “ EEG-based Human Factors Evaluation for Maritime Simulator-aided Assessment.” 3rd International Conference on Maritime Technology and Engineering, 2016. 
* Yisi Liu, Xiyuan Hou, Olga Sourina, Dimitrios Konovessis, Gopala Krishnan. “ Human factor study for maritime simulator-based assessment of cadets.” In Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Ocean, Offshore and Arctic Engineering (OMAE), 2016, 
* X. Hou, F. Trapsilawati, Y. Liu, O. Sourina, C. H. Chen, W. Mueller-Wittig, and T. A. Wei, "EEG-based human factors evaluation of conflict resolution aid and tactile user interface in future Air Traffic Control systems", In 4th International Conference on Human Factors in Transportation (AHFE2016), Florida, USA, July 2016.
* X. Hou, Y. Liu, O. Sourina, E. Tan, L. Wang, and W. Mueller-Wittig. "EEG based Stress Monitoring." in Proceeding of the 2015 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics (SMC2015), pp 3110-3115, 2015.
* X. Hou, Y. Liu, O. Sourina and W. Mueller-Wittig, "CogniMeter: EEG-based Emotion, Mental Workload and Stress Visual Monitoring", in Proceedings of 2015 International Conference on Cyberworlds (CW2015), pp 153-160, 2015.
* Y. Liu, W. L. Lim, X. Hou, Olga Sourina, and Lipo Wang, "Prediction of Human Cognitive Abilities based on EEG Measurements", in Proceedings of 2015 International Conference on Cyberworlds (CW2015), pp 161-164, 2015.
* X. Hou, O. Sourina and S. Klimenko, “Haptic-based Serious Games”, in Proceedings of 2014 International Conference on Cyberworlds (CW2014),pp 39-46 , 2014.
* Y. Liu, O. Sourina and X. Hou, “Neurofeedback Games to Improve Cognitive Abilities”, in Proceedings of 2014 International Conference on Cyberworlds (CW2014), pp 161-168, 2014.
* X. Hou and O. Sourina, “Emotion-enabled Haptic-based Serious Game for Post Stroke Rehabilitation”, In Proceeding of 19th ACM Symposium on Virtual Reality Software and Technology (VRST2013), Singapore, pp 31-34, October 2013. 
* X. Hou and O. Sourina, “A Prediction Method Using Interpolation for Smooth Six-DOF Haptic Rendering in Multirate Simulation”, in Proceedings of 2013 International Conference on Cyberworlds (CW2013), Japan, pp 294-301, October 2013.
* X. Hou and O. Sourina, “Visual Haptic-based Collaborative Molecular Docking”, In Proceeding of the 15th International Conference on Biomedical Engineering (ICBME2013), Singapore, pp 360-363, December 2013. 
* X. Hou and O. Sourina, “Stable Dynamic Algorithm Based on Virtual Coupling for 6-DOF Haptic Rendering”, in Proceedings of 2012 International Conference on Cyberworlds (CW2012), Germany, pp. 157-164, 2012.
* X. Hou and O. Sourina, “Haptic Rendering Algorithm for Biomolecular Docking with Torque Force”. In Proceedings of 2010 International Conference on Cyberworlds (CW2010), Singapore, 20-22 Oct, 2010, pp 25-31, 2010


[My Google Scholar with more details](https://scholar.google.com.sg/citations?user=A-CgcEIAAAAJ&hl)
